# Tips and tricks

Being given examples is a nice thing, but there also practical tips that can be followed when creating new listeners.

## Understanding the payload

If you are unsure about what the webhook payload contains, you can use a website
like [webhook.site](https://webhook.site): by using this kind of service, you can get a temporary URL, which you can use
as a destination for your webhook.

Once you have set this temporary URL as a destination for the webhook, trigger the webhook in one way or another, and
inspect the payload/headers/etc…

After the inspection, you will know which fields are going to be available, and you can build your templates. You can
then repoint the webhook to your `go-to-exec` instance.

## Catch errors

It is possible that you may have missed a field's behavior in the payload (e.g. in certain cases a field becomes null,
instead of being a string), and your templates may fail to execute.

If templates fail to execute, you will see it from the logs, but before you are able to notice an error, you will most
likely miss some events. For this purpose, you should use [error handlers](./0070-error-handling.md), and e.g. have an error
handler send a message to a Telegram channel, to let you know that there has been an issue.

You can use the `dump` function to dump the whole content of the event:

```yaml
errorHandler:
  files:
    payload.yaml: |
      chat_id: "123123"
      parse_mode: Markdown
      text: |
        *Error handler*

        {{ dump . }}

  command: bash
  args:
    - -c
    - |
      set -e
      HOOK="https://api.telegram.org/bot$TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN/sendMessage"
      [ $(curl -s -o /dev/stderr --write-out "%{http_code}" \
        -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" "$HOOK" --data-binary @- << EOF
      {{ fileReadToString (gte).files.payload_yaml | yamlToJson }}
      EOF
        ) -eq 200 ]
```

## Actions

You can use some services' features to generate actions. For example, Telegram lets you create buttons, which you can
click on, and they will open a web page at a specific URL.

You can use this feature to generate notifications, and have action buttons to execute other commands (imagine, receive
a notification when a build is complete, and have a button that lets you **Deploy** it).

Taking again Telegram as an example, each message can contain
some [`inline keyboard`](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#inlinekeyboardbutton) buttons, and every button can point to
a specific URL. This means we can use this button to trigger another listener of our `go-to-exec` deployment!

You can check out a full example of this flow in our [use cases](./0120-use-cases/telegram.md#telegram-message-action-button) area.

## Many listeners

If you find yourself in the situation of having many listeners, which are creating a lot of chaos in your configuration
file, you can improve the configuration following some approaches:

* Try to group as much functionality as possible in the `defaults` config section, so that the amount of repeated code
  is low. You can see an example [here](./0120-use-cases/telegram.md#telegram-message-common-vars).
* Split your configuration in multiple parts. You can use multiple instances of the `--config` flag when
  starting `go-to-exec`, which means you can specify any amount of configuration files to load. In addition, if **all**
  your listeners, even when split in multiple files, can share the same default, then you can create an
  external `defaults` file, which you can load with the `--defaults` flag. You can see an
  example [here](./0120-use-cases/multi-part-config.md).

